[Lateral Movement Detection] Update package to add RDP based lateral movement detection (#6406)
elastic/integrations: packages/lmd/docs/README.md

# Lateral Movement Detection Model

> The Lateral movement detection model package contains assets that detect lateral movement based on file transfer activity and Window's RDP events. This package requires a Platinum subscription. Please ensure that you have a Trial, Platinum, or Enterprise subscription before proceeding. This package is licensed under Elastic License v 2.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Lateral movement detection model package contains assets that detect lateral movement based on file transfer activity and Window's RDP events. This package requires a Platinum subscription. Please ensure that you have a Trial, Platinum, or Enterprise subscription before proceeding. This package is licensed under [Elastic License 2.0](https://www.elastic.co/licensing/elastic-license).
```

Reviewer: Add link and remove the `v` to make it aligned with the wording on our website

> The Lateral movement detection model package contains assets that detect lateral movement based on file transfer activity and Window's RDP events. This package requires a Platinum subscription. Please ensure that you have a Trial, Platinum, or Enterprise subscription before proceeding. This package is licensed under [Elastic License 2.0](https://www.elastic.co/licensing/elastic-license).

Reviewer 2: This should be without the apostrophe AFAIK - `Windows`

### Add preconfigured anomaly detection jobs

> The anomaly detection jobs under this package rely on two indices. One has file transfer events (`logs-*`) and another index (`ml-rdp-lmd-1.0.2`) that collects RDP session information from a transform. Before enabling the jobs, create a data view with both index patterns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The anomaly detection jobs under this package rely on two indices. One has file transfer events (`logs-*`), and the other index (`ml-rdp-lmd-1.0.2`) collects RDP session information from a transform. Before enabling the jobs, create a data view with both index patterns.
```

> The anomaly detection jobs under this package rely on two indices. One has file transfer events (`logs-*`) and another index (`ml-rdp-lmd-1.0.2`) that collects RDP session information from a transform. Before enabling the jobs, create a custom index with both index patterns.

Reviewer 3: Should this be `create a data view with both index patterns`

Author: Yes, thanks for catching this!

1. Go to **Stack Management > Kibana > Data Views** and click **Create data view**.
2. Enter the name of your respective index patterns in the **Index pattern** box, i.e., `logs-*, ml-rdp-lmd-1.0.2`, and copy the same in the **Name** field.
3. Select `@timestamp` under the **Timestamp** field and click on **Save data view to Kibana**.

> 4. Use the new custom index (`logs-*, ml-rdp-lmd-1.0.2`) to create anomaly detection jobs for this package.

Reviewer 3: Similarly, `use the new custom data view`

> In **Machine Learning > Anomaly Detection**, when you create a job, you should see an option to `Use preconfigured jobs` with a card for Lateral Movement Detection. When you select the card, you will see a pre-configured anomaly detection job that you can enable depending on what makes the most sense for your environment.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In **Machine Learning > Anomaly Detection**, when you create a job, you should see an option to `Use preconfigured jobs` with a card for Lateral Movement Detection. When you select the card, you will see pre-configured anomaly detection jobs that you can enable depending on what makes the most sense for your environment.
```

### Add preconfigured anomaly detection jobs

The anomaly detection jobs under this package rely on two indices. One has file transfer events (`logs-*`), and the other index (`ml-rdp-lmd-1.0.2`) collects RDP session information from a transform. Before enabling the jobs, create a data view with both index patterns.
1. Go to **Stack Management > Kibana > Data Views** and click **Create data view**.
2. Enter the name of your respective index patterns in the **Index pattern** box, i.e., `logs-*, ml-rdp-lmd-1.0.2`, and copy the same in the **Name** field.
3. Select `@timestamp` under the **Timestamp** field and click on **Save data view to Kibana**.
4. Use the new data view (`logs-*, ml-rdp-lmd-1.0.2`) to create anomaly detection jobs for this package.

> In **Machine Learning > Anomaly Detection**, when you create a job, you should see an option to `Use preconfigured jobs` with a card for Lateral Movement Detection. When you select the card, you will see pre-configured anomaly detection jobs that you can enable depending on what makes the most sense for your environment.

Reviewer 2: One bit of feedback we've had from someone using the current version of this integration is that we could make it clearer that you only see the card inside the ML Anomaly Detection job creation wizard when you have docs in the selected data view which match the query defined in the `lmd-ml.json` file, which in this case is now:
```
          "bool": {"should": [
            {"term": {
              "event.category": "file"
            }},
            {
              "bool": {"filter": [
                {"exists": {"field": "session.start_time"}}
              ]}
            }
          ]}
```

Any thoughts on whether it is worth adding that sort of info?

Reviewer 2: LGTM. Thanks for adding the note for the ML jobs query in the README.

### Enable Security rules

This model uses both anomaly detection and security rules to detect lateral movement in the network. In order to see all alerts detected by this model, you need to enable all the "Security Detection Rules" in the table, as described below. The first four rules are triggered when certain conditions for the anomaly detection jobs are satisfied. The last two rules are behavioral and independent of anomaly detection jobs. See the [documentation](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/security/current/detection-engine-overview.html) for more information on importing and enabling the rules.

> ### Install ProblemChild package to detect malicious processes

Reviewer 5: @sodhikirti07 if the user wants to use the LotL detection package to also detect non-lateral movement cases, can they still do that after making the modifications described in this section? Or is it an either/or decision between general LotL detection and specific RDP-based lateral movement detection using ProblemChild?

Author: They can still see the ProblemChild predictions for all the process events including RDP. However, if they want to only see predictions for RDP, they can use the query to filter.

> To detect malicious RDP processes started in a session, install the [Living off the Land Attack (LotL) Detection package](https://docs.elastic.co/integrations/problemchild). Follow the steps under the package [overview](https://docs.elastic.co/integrations/problemchild) to install related assets. Use the below filter query to examine model predictions on RDP events only. 

Reviewer 4: Do we want to link to the blog instead, since that has more detailed installation instructions.

Author: I agree that the blog post has more detail, but the instructions need to be updated as we no longer use the detection rules repo to install the packages. It could be misleading for new users. The blog post is linked to the overview page, so it's still accessible. Does it make sense?

Follow the below steps to customize anomaly detection jobs for RDP events:

> 1. Edit the datafeed of anomaly detection jobs to include RDP process events only. Click on the **Actions** panel at the right-most corner of the job and then select the **Edit job** option.

Author: Good point, will add the names here.

> 1. Edit the datafeed of anomaly detection jobs to include RDP process events only. Click on the **Actions** panel at the right-most corner of the job and then select the **Edit job** option.

Author: They will need to edit the datafeed of all jobs to only process RDP based events. I will specify it in the instructions.

> 1. Edit the datafeed of anomaly detection jobs to include RDP process events only. Click on the **Actions** panel at the right-most corner of the job and then select the **Edit job** option.

Reviewer 4: Ahhh go tit. Yeah, good to clarify that.

Detects potential lateral movement activity by identifying malicious file transfers to a host.

| Job | Description                                                                                                              |
|---|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | high-count-remote-file-transfer | A machine learning job to detect unusually high file transfers to a remote host in the network                           | 

Reviewer 2: Nit - the second half of the list uses a closing `.`, while the first half doesn't.
